# Apriori_Algorithm
## Introduction 
In the period of unconvinced life and digital shopping and everything could be available online still will try to find a time to go supermarkets for shopping or quick pick up. But did we think why certain items are placed together and are there any reason behind their placement such as milk near cookies, conditioners placed near shampoo and so on ... The shopkeeper knows the customers’ sentiment so they look to optimising the sales and makes a profit out of it. 
Market Basket Analysis is a common technique used specially by large retailers to find hidden patterns on customer behaviours. 
### Apriori Algorithm Overview 
It is an algorithm for discovering frequent itemsets in transaction databases. This algorithm, introduced by R Agrawal and R Srikant in 1994 has great significance in data mining. Apriori is one of the algorithms that use in E-commerce website as recommendation features websites to get recommended contents. Applied when we have transactions databases.In final we are looking to get frequent item sets i.e. items which are bought most frequently. 
### Association Rule Mining 
Association Rule Mining is used when you want to find an association between different objects in a set, find frequent patterns in a transaction database, relational databases or any other information repository. The applications of Association Rule Mining are found in Marketing, Basket Data Analysis (or Market Basket Analysis) in retailing, clustering and classification. The most common approach to find these patterns is Market Basket Analysis, which is a key technique used by large retailers like Amazon, Flipkart, etc to analyse customer buying habits by finding associations between the different items that customers place in their “shopping baskets”. The discovery of these associations can help retailers develop marketing strategies by gaining insight into which items are frequently purchased together by customers. 
